doc/installation.md, before:

# Installation

This library can either be used [CMake]'s `add_subdirectory()` command or installed globally.

## Requirements

* git
* CMake version 3.1 or higher
* GCC 4.7 or higher, or clang 3.4 or higher or Visual Studio 12 or higher

## As subdirectory of your project

### 1. Fetching

It is recommended to setup a [git submodule] inside your project.
Simply run:

1. `git submodule add https://github.com/foonathan/memory ext/memory`. This will clone the latest commit into a local directory `ext/memory` and registers it as a submodule.
2. `git submodule update --init --recursive`. This will fetches the latest commits from all submodules `memory` itself is using.

If you later want to update your local copy to the latest version, simply run: `git submodule update --recursive --remote`.

*Note: Run this command also if you get an error message during CMake 
telling you that a newer version of compatibility is required. This will 
update the compatibility submodule to its newest version.*

### 2. CMake Setup

I am assuming that there is a local copy of the library source files under the path `ext/memory`.

In your `CMakeLists.txt` place a call to `add_subdirectory(ext/memory)`.
This will make all targets of `memory` available inside your CMakeLists.txt.
If you want to configure the library, add `set(option value CACHE INTERNAL "" FORCE)` before the `add_subdirectory()` command.
See [options] for a list of all configuration options and CMake variables.

Now the targets is available and to use the library in your application, call to `target_link_libraries(target foonathan_memory)`.
This will also setups the include search path of the compiler.

The library requires C++11 support. If it is not already enabled for your target, you can use my [compatibility library].
It provides an advanced `target_compile_features()` functionality with automated workaround code for missing features,
but also a simple way to activate C++11. Just call `comp_target_features(target PUBLIC CPP11)`.
This function is already available through the call to `add_subdirectory()` since `memory` is using it, too.

### 3. Code Usage

In your code you simply need to include the appropriate headers and you are good to got.
Everything is under the subdirectory `foonathan/memory` so write `#include <foonathan/memory/heap_allocator.hpp>` to use the [heap_allocator].

## Installing the library

Download or clone the source for the library version you want to install.
Run `git submodule update --init --recursive` to fetch the libary's submodules.
You can build the library inside the source directory, it will not be needed after the installation.

For each build type, run `cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE="buildtype" -DFOONATHAN_MEMORY_BUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DFOONATHAN_MEMORY_BUILD_TESTS=OFF .` with possible other [options] to configure, then simply `cmake --build . -- install` to build and install the library.
This will install the header files under `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/include/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}`, the tools under `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/bin` and the build artifacts under `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}`. 
By default, `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}` is `/usr/local` under UNIX and `C:/Program Files` under Windows,
installation may require `sudo`/administrative privileges.

It is recommended that you install the library for the `Debug`, `RelWithDebInfo` and `Release` build types.
Each build type allows different CMake configurations and compiler flags, you can also create your own.

## Using an installed library (CMake)

After you've installed the library, all you need to call is `find_package(foonathan_memory major.minor REQUIRED)` to find it.
This will look for a library installation of a compatible version and the same build type as your project,
i.e. if you compile under build type `Debug`, it will also match the `Debug` library.
This *should* work without your help, otherwise it will tell you what to do.

A `0.x` version requires an exact match in the call to `find_package()`, otherwise a library with same major version and a higher minor version is also compatible.
If you want only exact version matches add the `EXACT` flag to `find_package()`.

After that you can link to the library by calling `target_link_libraries(your_target PUBLIC foonathan_memory)`.
This only requires that `your_target` has C++11 or higher activated.

*Note: unlike in the `add_subdirectory()` version, my [compatibility library] is not exposed.
You need to add it manually, if you want to use it to activate C++11.*

Then simply include the headers, everything is under the subdirectory `foonathan/memory` so write `#include <foonathan/memory/heap_allocator.hpp>` to use the [heap_allocator].

## Using an installed library (other buildsystems)

To use the library with other build-systems, add `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/include/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}` and `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}/${CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE}` to your include directories path.
Activate C++11 and link to the library file in `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}/${CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE}`.

[CMake]: www.cmake.org
[git submodule]: http://git-scm.com/docs/git-submodule
[compatibility library]: https://github.com/foonathan/compatibility
[heap_allocator]: \ref foonathan::memory::heap_allocator
[options]: md_doc_options.html

Commit message:

Version macros are now global to check for library existence

doc/installation.md, after:

# Installation

This library can either be used [CMake]'s `add_subdirectory()` command or installed globally.

## Requirements

* git
* CMake version 3.1 or higher
* GCC 4.7 or higher, or clang 3.4 or higher or Visual Studio 12 or higher

## As subdirectory of your project

### 1. Fetching

It is recommended to setup a [git submodule] inside your project.
Simply run:

1. `git submodule add https://github.com/foonathan/memory ext/memory`. This will clone the latest commit into a local directory `ext/memory` and registers it as a submodule.
2. `git submodule update --init --recursive`. This will fetches the latest commits from all submodules `memory` itself is using.

If you later want to update your local copy to the latest version, simply run: `git submodule update --recursive --remote`.

*Note: Run this command also if you get an error message during CMake 
telling you that a newer version of compatibility is required. This will 
update the compatibility submodule to its newest version.*

### 2. CMake Setup

I am assuming that there is a local copy of the library source files under the path `ext/memory`.

In your `CMakeLists.txt` place a call to `add_subdirectory(ext/memory)`.
This will make all targets of `memory` available inside your CMakeLists.txt.
If you want to configure the library, add `set(option value CACHE INTERNAL "" FORCE)` before the `add_subdirectory()` command.
See [options] for a list of all configuration options and CMake variables.

Now the targets is available and to use the library in your application, call to `target_link_libraries(target foonathan_memory)`.
This will also setups the include search path of the compiler.

The library requires C++11 support. If it is not already enabled for your target, you can use my [compatibility library].
It provides an advanced `target_compile_features()` functionality with automated workaround code for missing features,
but also a simple way to activate C++11. Just call `comp_target_features(target PUBLIC CPP11)`.
This function is already available through the call to `add_subdirectory()` since `memory` is using it, too.

### 3. Code Usage

In your code you simply need to include the appropriate headers and you are good to got.
Everything is under the subdirectory `foonathan/memory` so write `#include <foonathan/memory/heap_allocator.hpp>` to use the [heap_allocator].

## Installing the library

Download or clone the source for the library version you want to install.
Run `git submodule update --init --recursive` to fetch the libary's submodules.
You can build the library inside the source directory, it will not be needed after the installation.

For each build type, run `cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE="buildtype" -DFOONATHAN_MEMORY_BUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DFOONATHAN_MEMORY_BUILD_TESTS=OFF .` with possible other [options] to configure, then simply `cmake --build . -- install` to build and install the library.
This will install the header files under `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/include/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}`, the tools under `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/bin` and the build artifacts under `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}`. 
By default, `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}` is `/usr/local` under UNIX and `C:/Program Files` under Windows,
installation may require `sudo`/administrative privileges.

It is recommended that you install the library for the `Debug`, `RelWithDebInfo` and `Release` build types.
Each build type allows different CMake configurations and compiler flags, you can also create your own.

## Using an installed library (CMake)

After you've installed the library, all you need to call is `find_package(foonathan_memory major.minor REQUIRED)` to find it.
This will look for a library installation of a compatible version and the same build type as your project,
i.e. if you compile under build type `Debug`, it will also match the `Debug` library.
This *should* work without your help, otherwise it will tell you what to do.

A `0.x` version requires an exact match in the call to `find_package()`, otherwise a library with same major version and a higher minor version is also compatible.
If you want only exact version matches add the `EXACT` flag to `find_package()`.

If a right library version/configuration cannot be found, this is an error due to the `REQUIRED`.
If this is not what you want, leave it out and do conditionals based on the CMake variable `foonathan_memory_FOUND`.
In the source code, all targets linking to the library have the macro `FOONATHAN_MEMORY` defined automatically,
as `FOONATHAN_MEMORY_VERSION_MAJOR/MINOR`.
Use conditional compilation with them.

After that you can link to the library by calling `target_link_libraries(your_target PUBLIC foonathan_memory)`.
This only requires that `your_target` has C++11 or higher activated.

*Note: unlike in the `add_subdirectory()` version, my [compatibility library] is not exposed.
You need to add it manually, if you want to use it to activate C++11.*

Then simply include the headers, everything is under the subdirectory `foonathan/memory` so write `#include <foonathan/memory/heap_allocator.hpp>` to use the [heap_allocator].

## Using an installed library (other buildsystems)

To use the library with other build-systems, add `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/include/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}` and `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}/${CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE}` to your include directories path.
Activate C++11 and link to the library file in `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/lib/foonathan_memory-${major}.${minor}/${CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE}`.

You should also gobally define the `FOONATHAN_MEMORY` macro as `1` and the `FOONATHAN_MEMORY_VERSION_MAJOR/MINOR` macros as the corresponding values.

[CMake]: www.cmake.org
[git submodule]: http://git-scm.com/docs/git-submodule
[compatibility library]: https://github.com/foonathan/compatibility
[heap_allocator]: \ref foonathan::memory::heap_allocator
[options]: md_doc_options.html
